title: "Camera Traps Confirm the Presence of the White-naped Mangabey Cercocebus lunulatus in Cape Three Points Forest Reserve, Western Ghana"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2019-Mangabey-Photo-number-11
excerpt: 'Camera trap confirmation of White-naped Mangabey in Cape Three Points'
date: 2019-03-01
venue: 'Primate COnservation'
paperurl: 'http://www.primate-sg.org/primate-conservation-33/'
citation: 'Nolan, R., Welsh, A., Geary, M., Hartley, M., Dempsey, A., Mono, J.C., Osei, D. & Stanley, C.R. 2019. Camera Traps Confirm the Presence of the White-naped Mangabey  Cercocebus lunulatus in Cape Three Points Forest Reserve, Western Ghana, Primate conservation (33).'
---

# Abstract

The white-naped mangabey Cercocebus lunulatus is severely threatened by logging, mining, and hunting.  In the last decade, wild populations have been confirmed in just three forested areas in Ghana and a handful of sites in neighboring Côte d’Ivoire and Burkina Faso.  Sightings of this species were recently reported in a fourth area in Ghana, the Cape Three Points Forest Reserve, a forest patch in western Ghana, 60 km from the nearest recorded wild population, which is in the Ankasa Conservation Area.  We deployed 14 camera traps across 21 different locations throughout the reserve, with the intention of confirming the presence of this species.  Images of the white-naped mangabey were captured at four locations, consolidating recent evidence for a fourth sub-population of this species in Ghana and providing only the second-ever photograph of a wild member of this species in the country.  We observed evidence of numerous illegal anthropogenic activities in the reserve, which threaten these mangabeys, and we make recommendations for the protection of the reserve, essential for the conservation of this highly endangered species.


[Link to Journal Website](http://www.primate-sg.org/primate-conservation-33/

citation: 'Nolan, R., Welsh, A., Geary, M., Hartley, M., Dempsey, A., Mono, J.C., Osei, D. & Stanley, C.R. 2019. Camera Traps Confirm the Presence of the White-naped Mangabey  Cercocebus lunulatus in Cape Three Points Forest Reserve, Western Ghana, Primate conservation (33).'
